hi I'm Danny an executive producer at
343 necessary d3 were really excited to
announce halo anniversary to the world
we wanted to give an example of campaign
so we used silent cartographer to really
highlight some of the exciting features
were developing for the game and now we
want to share this with the rest of the
world so this is really your chance to
get a behind-the-scenes peek at what
we're doing with halo anniversary hope
you enjoy okay so let's dive right in
and take a look at silent cartographer
this is exactly the same demonstration
we gave to the press at e3 in fact this
is exactly the same build so the
exciting thing is that this build has
come a really long way since we showed
this at e3 it's kind of funny for me to
look at it now and say hey well game
looks much better now so the first thing
you're going to see immediately on the
fly in is the graphical upgrade I mean
the game looks fantastic we spent a lot
of time really lovingly bringing this
into the current generation and you know
working very hard to make sure that this
looks like a current generation title
something everyone can look at and just
say wow this game looks fantastic but
the big test is really how does it feel
so let's take a look so we're going to
charge the charge the beach here first
thing you're going to get a taste of
when you pick up this game and start
playing is that this plays exactly like
the original that was a core development
principle for us as this game needed to
play exactly the way it did ten years
ago I mean this is the game that
launched a generation of shooters so we
had to make sure that that feeling was
identical to that experience that
everybody remembered ten years ago
because this is really a gift to the
fans this is a way to relive the
experience of playing halo one for the
first time so we really wanted to make
sure it was identical and the way we did
that was actually a fun technical trick
we're actually running portions of two
engines at the same time so the
underlying code the code controlling how
the game feels how the AI reacts all of
that stuff is a lot of it's the original
halo 1 code and that was really the best
way for us to ensure that the game
played exactly the same as it did 10
years ago but on top of that we've
layered a new graphics engine that
allows us to you know make the game look
fantastic and look like a current
generation title so it's really a great
mix of the two so at the end of the day
you know your halo fan gets a game that
plays exactly like they remember but
looks like a current generation title we
get some other benefits from this as
well as I said earlier I say this all
the time the primary goal for this game
is to make sure halo fan
can relive the experience of what it was
like to play ten years ago and one of
the big tools we have in our box through
that is classic mode so what's classic
mode at the touch of a button you can
swap back and see how the game looked 10
years ago so here it is this is you know
halo 1 10 years ago and it's really a
magical feature for Halo fans because
this just lets you go back in time and
see exactly how this game look 10 years
ago but the fun part is you can come
back at any time so classic mode gives
you the ability to go back and forth
whenever you want at the campaign so one
of the things that's fun to do is get
out to a spot like this that you know
just looks beautiful you've got the
water the Sun reflecting over at the
halo ring in the background and say hey
what did this look like 10 years ago
touch a button and there it is right I
mean it's really really really a lot of
fun to go back and forth between the two
modes and this is something I personally
get the most excited about and I think
you know the fans are really going to
love it too this was definitely a big
win at e3 as you can see the other
benefits you get from the new version is
you've got the splash affects the dust
effects is you get back onto the beach
the game just looks great the other
thing that's fantastic for the first
time you know we're gonna have co-op
over live for the campaign so you can
hop onto the warthog with a buddy and
just plow through this game and you know
start mowing down grunts and elites and
you know just team up with a friend get
on go you know hook up on live and play
through the campaign together and you
know we think people are really going to
love that too I often say what would
halo 1 be without the Magnum and you
know of course the magnums back everyone
remembers that fantastically overpowered
pistol that just enabled you to walk
through and just mow through hordes of
enemies tremendous amount of fun so you
know we're excited to bring that back as
well again you know you can see the game
plays exactly the same as it did cannot
highlight that enough that was really
really important for us to make sure
that this game played the same as it did
because it's a really an iconic game
this is the game that convinced a lot of
people myself included that you could
actually have a fun first person shooter
experience on the console I mean I was a
hardcore PC shooter guy you know said
you're never going to make a game on the
console that is gonna you know make me
want to play and this is the game that
changed my you know my impression of it
and it's the same for millions of Halo
fans and those fans that's who this game
is for you know this game is really a
labor of love for us here at three for
three and we're really excited to be
able to present it to you so there's two
sneak peek a silent cartographer really
just the tip of the iceberg we've got a
lot more features we're going to
announce is what
closer to launch come to halo fest at
the end of August and see the whole game
in action see you then